added docs for browser profiling (#29708)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/correlate_with_other_telemetry/profiling/_index.md

Browser Profiling is in Preview.
{{< /callout >}}

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/browser/optimizing_performance/browser_profiler.png" alt="Browser profiling example when analyzing an event sample." style="width:100%;" >}}

## Overview

Browser profiling provides visibility into how your application behaves in your users' browsers, helping you to understand root causes behind unresponsive applications (whether unresponsiveness happens at page load, of further down the page's lifecycle). Using profiling data alongside RUM insights enables you to see what code is executed during a [Long Animation Frame (LoAF)][1], understanding how JavaScript execution and rendering tasks affect user-perceived performance.

To get started, ensure browser profiling is enabled in your RUM SDK configuration. When browser profiling is enabled, you can click on a profiled event sample to see a profile section.

## Usage

### Setup RUM
1. Set up [RUM Browser Monitoring][2].

2. Initialize the RUM SDK and configure the following initialization parameters:
    - `profilingSampleRate`, which sets the percentage of page navigations that are profiled

>     - `enableExperimentalFeatures` initialization parameter which enabled profiling for the app

Reviewer: Note: this was recommended for removal but it's still here.

Reviewer: Removed: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/29708/commits/2884c34c9f5a5713e34f7e153f0bae1542775a1e

    })
    ```

3. Configure your web servers to serve HTML pages with the HTTP response header `Document-Policy: js-profiling`:
    ```javascript
        app.get("/", (request, response) => {
            … 
            response.set("Document-Policy", "js-profiling");
            …
        });
    ```

4. Set up Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) if needed.

    This step is required only if your JavaScript files are served from a different origin. For example, an HTML document is served from `cdn.com`, and JavaScript files are served from `static.cdn.com`. In this case, you must enable CORS; if you do not, your JavaScript files are invisible for the profiler. By default, your browser loads JavaScript in `no-cors` mode. For more information, see the [Browser profiling and CORS](#cors) section.
    
    To enable CORS:

    - Add a `crossorigin="anonymous"` attribute to `<script/>` tags
    - Ensure that JavaScript response includes the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *` HTTP header (or the proper origin value)
    
       ```javascript
       app.get("/", (request, response) => {
           … 
           response.header("Access-Control-Allow-Origin", "*");

>            response.header("Access-Control-Allow-Headers",

Reviewer: Heads up that this looks cut off?

---
title: Connect RUM and Profiling
aliases:
- /real_user_monitoring/connect_rum_and_profiling

> - /real_user_monitoring/platform/connect_rum_and_profiling/

Author: Thanks for the context - I'll remove!

further_reading:
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/real-user-monitoring-with-datadog/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Real User Monitoring"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/modern-frontend-monitoring/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Start monitoring single-page applications"
  - link: "/tracing/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "APM and Distributed Tracing"
---
{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/browser/optimizing_performance/browser_profiler.png" alt="Profling example when digging into an event sample." style="width:100%;" >}}

## Overview

> To go beyond core web vitals, you can pair RUM with Browser Profiling for full end-to-end visibility into how your application behaves in users' browsers. While the Optimization page helps you identify what your users are experiencing, the browser profiler helps you understand _why_ those issues are happening. 
> With profiling data alongside RUM insights, you can:
> 
> - Pinpoint exactly what code was executing during a given Long Animation Frame (LoAF)
> - Understand how JavaScript execution and rendering tasks affect user-perceived performance
> - Diagnose unresponsive moments on the page that may not be tied to loading issues
> - Identify inefficient rendering that slow down page responsiveness after the initial load
> 
> This deeper insight accelerates root cause analysis, eliminates the guesswork of reproducing issues, and helps prioritize the right frontend optimizations with confidence.

Reviewer 2: I feel the different bullet points are actually several ways of saying the exact same thing. I'd rather go with something simpler:

```suggestion
Browser profiling provides visibility into how your application behaves in your users' browsers, helping you to understand root causes behind unresponsive applications (whether unresponsiveness happens at page load, of further down the page's lifecycle). Using profiling data alongside RUM insights enables you to see what code is executed during a [Long Animation Frame (LoAF)][1], understanding how JavaScript execution and rendering tasks affect user-perceived performance.
```

To get started, ensure browser profiling is enabled in your RUM SDK configuration. When youc click an event sample now, you will get a profile section if we have profiled this event. 

## Usage

### Prerequisites
-   Your services use an HTTP server.

> -   Your HTTP servers are using [a library that supports profiling](#supported-libraries).

Reviewer 2: There is no "Supported Libraries" section, and I don't actually understand what this does here, couldn't we just remove this section?

### Setup RUM
1. Set up [RUM Browser Monitoring][2].

2. Initialize the RUM SDK. Configure the following:
    - `profilingSampleRate` initialization parameter which sets the percentage of page navigations that will get profiled.

>     - `enableExperimentalFeatures` initialization parameter which enabled profiling for the app

Reviewer 3: Let's not mention this `enableExperimentalFeatures` alltogether in the doc. It should only be used internally, and is not intended to be customer facing.

>     - `enableExperimentalFeatures` initialization parameter which enabled profiling for the app

Reviewer 4: In this PR, this page is being linked to in the left nav. When published, it'll be visible in the left nav AND indexed by search engines.

To reduce the page's visibility, you can remove the left nav link (in `main.en.yaml`) and add `private: true` to this page's frontmatter parameters. This is fairly hidden, but remember that the documentation repo is itself an open source repo that can be searched (and customers have done so in the past.) So it really depends on how internal you want that parameter to be.

>     - `enableExperimentalFeatures` initialization parameter which enabled profiling for the app

Author: thanks @cswatt - I'll remove it from the Nav, and I think that's good enough

>     - `enableExperimentalFeatures` initialization parameter which enabled profiling for the app

Reviewer 3: Yes I believe we should not mention `enableExperimentalFeatures` at all, even hidden :)

>     - `enableExperimentalFeatures` initialization parameter which enabled profiling for the app

Author: ok!

    ```javascript
    import { datadogRum } from '@datadog/browser-rum'

    datadogRum.init({
      clientToken: '<CLIENT_TOKEN>',
      applicationId: '<APPLICATION_ID>',
      site: 'datadoghq.com',
      //  service: 'my-web-application',
      //  env: 'production',
      //  version: '1.0.0',

>       profilingSampleRate: 100,

Author: I snagged this from the RUM docs. It has sampleRate at 100 for a bunch of places :)

>       profilingSampleRate: 100,

Reviewer 3: I'm ok to let it to 100 then!

>       enableExperimentalFeatures: ['profiling'], // if not specified, defaults to 100

Reviewer 3: The comment is not correct, and this `enableExperimentalFeatures` should not appear in the doc.

Author: I'll remove the comment, but have the same comment as above

    ```javascript
        app.get("/", (request, response) => {
            … 
            response.set("Document-Policy", "js-profiling");
            …
        });
    ```

4. Setup CORS script loading if needed

    This step is required only if your JavaScript files are served from a different origin. For example, an HTML document is served from myapp.com, and JavaScript files are served from static.myapp.com. If that's the case, you have to use cors script loading; otherwise, these JavaScript files will be invisible for the profiler. By default, your browser loads JavaScript in no-cors mode. 
    
    To opt-in for cors mode, you have to:

    - Add crossorigin="anonymous" attribute to `<script/>` tags
    - Ensure that JavaScript response includes the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *` HTTP header (or the proper origin value)
    
    ```javascript
    app.get("/", (request, response) => {
        … 
        response.header("Access-Control-Allow-Origin", "*");
        response.header("Access-Control-Allow-Headers",
        …
    });
    ```
## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [2]: /real_user_monitoring/browser/setup/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[1]: /real_user_monitoring/guide/browser-sdk-upgrade/#collect-long-animation-frames-as-long-tasks
[2]: /real_user_monitoring/browser/setup/
```
